Welcome! In this lecture we are going to be looking at how we can create spheres and
add physics to them, so we can make them collide and do cool things like
this! OK let's dive right in!
OK so let's get started by adding a sphere
into this scene! So remember that we need to right-click
in our Hierarchy, then go down to 3D Object, and this is where we've
got the list of 3D objects available to us. So
let's click on the sphere. Now, if we use
Alt to rotate around this scene, then we can see
where that sphere is located, at the moment, and we can see
that our floor is a little bit slanty. One thing
perhaps of interest is, if you have a
look at this widget here, to the right of your viewport,
it allows us to look from the different dimensions. So I can look from
the X dimension, I can look from the Y, dimension, I can look from the Z dimension,
and you can also look from the opposite sides as well, just by clicking
on these elements, essentially.
And if you click in the middle, it switches from the Perspective view,
like this, to an Orthographic view, which is...just
makes it easier to see that we're actually rotating this, this plane.
And let's have a look where our Camera is. So that's where our Camera is,
this is where our Sphere is, and this is where our
Cube is. I'm going to remove the Rotation from
that, by... And the way I did that is by going into the Transform,
in the Inspector, and the Transform is basically about the Position
and Rotation. So we can see there's Position, here's Rotation,
and then, I'm just going to just use the arrows to adjust the Position. You see as I adjust
the arrows, the position numbers are also changing.
So let's speed that along and I can hit play.
OK so now we've got the floor underneath us.
Perhaps a little bit too far underneath, so let's
put it back. OK, now what we want
is that sphere to actually be in front of the camera, because, at the moment, if we look
at the camera it's over here, and now we can see that the sphere
is in the preview. let's just play to check! There we go, there's
the sphere! A bit boring all being static, at the moment, so what I wanted
to show you in this lecture is something called the RigidBody
Component. So you'll notice, in this Inspector, we've got lots of tabs, so each of these
tabs is for a different component. We have a Transform component, a Camera
component, and these are the things that essentially make our object what it is.
So if I look at the Cube, for example, or if I look at the
Sphere, in fact that's what we want to be modifying, you'll notice that there are
different components that make it a sphere. We have the Transform which tells
us where that sphere is located, we have the sphere
mesh itself, (Mesh Filter). I'm not sure
what that one does, but the Mesh Renderer is the thing that makes it such that
we can see our sphere in the scene,
and we also have something called a Sphere Collider, we won't worry about. But what I want
to do is add a new component, and what we want to do is
create some physics on this. So if we look at component
called Rigidbody... This is what we need, not the 2D
version but the 3D version. And what this is going to do,
as we can see by these different fields, is it's going to add some
mass and some Gravity to our sphere. So let's save that
scene and hit play.
There we go! So our sphere just dropped to the ground, without us
having to do anything. Perfect!
So time for your challenge! I would like you go create a second sphere,
using the knowledge that we have just had, and by doing this,
I'd like you to add a sphere to the Hierarchy and then position that
sphere in the viewport. And then, when you've done that with the positioning,
I'd like you to add a Rigidbody component to that sphere, so that it can fall
when you hit play. And make it so that, when you position
them, the spheres actually collide, we can see what kind of
cool effects that's going to have, when spheres actually collide with one another!
Finally, share those results in the discussions! We'd all love to see what
[Laughs] crazy things you manage to do with spheres. Maybe many spheres, maybe cubes as well,
I just want to see what you can concoct out of all these
shapes colliding with one another. OK, so pause the video and let your creativity
run wild!
OK welcome back! We are
going to dive right in! So we
want to create a new sphere! I'm going to right-click, go down to
3D Object again, and Sphere, and as you
can see, it's given the name Sphere (1) because all the names have to be unique.
I'm going to move this sphere and position it, just slightly
underneath but at an offset, so we will get a more interesting collision this way.
I'm going to have a look from the front, maybe I'll offset it slightly in this
dimension, too. Now, as I said, I want to add a component. As you can
see, it still remembers that I had searched for Rigidbody, so I'm going to click that one
and add in a Rigidbody component. OK, I'm going to hit play,
and there we go, the spheres collide and they start to roll off
in different directions. Now, one thing that I think would
be interesting to play with here is, perhaps if we increase the Mass
of this sphere underneath. So it's going to roll off
much less quickly, because it's heavier.
So let's hit that play button! There we go, so
that sphere underneath has definitely rolled much less. Now, what happens if I
invert this? You see, it's very fun! You get to play with physics just right
here on your computer, without having to do much work at all!
Just tweaking a few parameters. There we go, we've got a heavier sphere.
Yep, that is still rolling quite well! OK cool! So that is
your introduction to Rigidbody, and well done on getting that
done!